---
title: "Global Is the New Local: FPGA Architecture at 5nm and Beyond"
authors: "Stefan Nikolić, Francky Catthoor, Zsolt Tőkei, and Paolo Ienne"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/fpga21a
excerpt: ''

date: 2021-03-01
venue: "FPGA'21"
---

**Abstract:** It takes only high-school physics to appreciate that the resistance of a wire grows with a diminishing cross section, and a quick look at any plot about Moore's law immediately suggests that such cross section must decrease over time. Clearly, everyone can easily imagine that this trend must have a deep influence on FPGA architectures. What is difficult to predict is whether and when well-established architectural ideas will break---and what can replace them. Unfortunately, in architectural research, we often use fairly simplistic models of the underlying technology nodes which limit our ability to visualize the detailed impact of technology evolution. In this paper, we develop, from the available industrial disclosures, a consistent electrical model of the metal stacks of recent and current technologies, as well as future trends. We combine it to a plausible layout strategy to have an accurate idea of how wire characteristics play nowadays into architectural decisions. To demonstrate our models, necessarily speculative due to the paucity of reliable industrial information, we use them to explore the evolution of a typical architectural family across technology nodes and to reevaluate one of the most basic design parameters---namely, cluster size. We notice effects which may in fact explain some recent changes in commercial architectures. We also observe how conventional architectures may fail to take advantage of the performance improvements of future nodes. Although conceptually straightforward, this study signals how profoundly our understanding of FPGAs will be affected by technology while moving towards the 3 nm node. 

[[DOI]](https://doi.org/10.1145/3431920.3439300)
[[Author's local PDF copy of the paper]](http://stefannikolicns.github.io/files/Nikolic_et_al___Global_Is_the_New_Local_FPGA_Architecture_at_5nm_and_Beyond___2021.pdf)
[[Slides]](http://stefannikolicns.github.io/files/fpga21_slides.pdf)
[[Source code]](https://github.com/EPFL-LAP/fpga21-scaled-tech)
